Doc-11534-PM-2.8-Edits-DH  Partner Manager 2.8 edits (#141)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/Edits/create-inbound-message-flow.adoc

= Create and Configure an Inbound Message Flow
:page-aliases: configure-message-flows.adoc

> You can create and configure an inbound message flow to receive EDI messages from your trading partners, including messages that go through 3rd party connections. When you create an inbound message flow, you can validate and transform the inbound messages and then send the translated message (JSON or XML) to your backend applications.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY keep an eye out for the modal "can," per the style reference.
I suggest clarifying between choice and ability, and omitting "can" in most instances of the latter.

Reviewer: I get a little confused about "an inbound message flow": it is not the actual inbound message, but rather about the flow created to receive and process that message?
When I see "inbound," I think from the partner, not created by the host. I think that is part of what's hard to understand about PM....

Reviewer: Does this help?
```suggestion
Create and configure an inbound message flow to:
* Receive EDI messages from your trading partners, including messages that go through 3rd party connections
* Validate and transform the inbound messages
* Send the translated message (JSON or XML) to your backend applications
```

> To receive messages sent from a trading partner through a 3rd party connection, select an endpoint owned by that connection.

Reviewer: I wonder if this sentence should follow the first above, rather than the whole first para? Ending with selecting an endpoint is a bit odd, given the interruption caused by the (Level-3) PR and Steps prior to the (Level-2) topic about specifying (selecting?) an endpoint. Confusing narrative flow, wonky head hierarchy.

> 

Reviewer: This set goes from a Level-1 heading to a Level-3?

Reviewer: This is an odd task.
Aside from skipping a head level to address prereqs and "steps," only the first three of the steps are really steps (to create the message flow), while the rest of the steps are tasks with steps that follow as separate topics.
To me, it seems that this topic set should have:
= title
An intro that provides context to when and why your audience wants and needs to do this, and the solitary prereq
== Create a Message Flow
== Configure/Specify the Receiving Endpoint (include AS2 sender text, without subhead)
== Configure the Source Message Type
== Import....
== Verify....

Reviewer: Rest is copyedited, without commenting on this suggested org.

=== Prerequisites

> Before you create your first inbound message flow, you must configure your xref:setup-payload-storage-API.adoc[payload storage API].

Reviewer: This is such a brief PR that it could be included in the intro text. Just an option.

=== Steps

. From the Anypoint Partner Manager navigation menu, select *Message Flows*.
. Click *New message flow > Receive from partner*.

> . Either select an existing partner from the list or select *New* to create a new partner, as described in xref:create-partner.adoc#[Create a partner].

Reviewer: Do we need this level of specificity given the choices in "Specify the Receiving Endpoint"?

+

> A new message flow is created.

Reviewer: ...but only if the user chooses the second option, so do we really have to include this?

+
. <<receiving-endpoint,Configure the receiving endpoint>>.
. <<source-message-type,Configure the source message type>>.
. <<import-map,Import the translation map>>.
. <<verify-message-flow,Verify that the message flow is complete>>.

[receiving-endpoint]

> == Specify the Receiving Endpoint

Reviewer: Why change from "configure" to "specify"?

> Specify the endpoint that will receive the message you are sending. You can do either of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use one of the following methods to specify the endpoint to receive the message you are sending:
```

* Select an existing endpoint owned by the host, target partner, or 3rd party connection.
+
If you select an endpoint owned by a 3rd party connection, the inbound message goes through that connection.
+

> * Create a new receiving endpoint for this message flow.

Reviewer: repeats earlier text; belongs here and not there

To specify the receiving endpoint:

. In the message flow, expand the *Receiving from <partner>* section and click *Select endpoint*.
. In the *Receiving endpoint* section, click *Select*.
. In the *Select an endpoint: Receive from <partner>* window, do either of the following:
* Select an existing receiving endpoint and click *Select*.

> * Click *New* to create a new endpoint, as described in xref:<<create-endpoint.adoc, Create and Configure Endpoints>>.

Reviewer: Yikes, you want to review the entire doc to see how many times (and how many different wordings) this is conveyed. All this confuses the simple options of using what exists vs. creating something new.

+

> The endpoint is added to the message flow, and a message appears indicating that the endpoint is missing an identifier.

Reviewer: What is the audience supposed to do in response to that message?

=== AS2 Sender

> If the protocol of the receive endpoint is AS2, select the AS2 Sender from the dropdown menu:

Reviewer: Which dropdown menu?

Reviewer: As a solitary subtopic to the task, I would incorporate the info into that task rather than making it separate.

> If the protocol of the receive endpoint is AS2, select the AS2 Sender from the dropdown menu:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the protocol of the receive endpoint is AS2, select the AS2 sender from the dropdown menu:
```
or
```suggestion
If the protocol of the receive endpoint is AS2, make a selection from the *AS2 Sender* menu:
```

* If your organization will receive the AS2 messages directly from the partner for whom the message flow is created, select the partner’s name (default).
* If your organization will receive the AS2 messages for the partner via a 3rd party connection, such as a VAN or 3PL, select the name of the 3rd party connection. The AS2 identifier and certificate of the selected 3rd party connection will be used in AS2 message validation.

> * If you selected AS2 as the receive to partner endpoint protocol, you must import the AS2 certificate of the partner or the 3rd party connection sending the AS2 message, if a certificate already does not exist in the partner or 3rd party connection’s profile.

Reviewer: This list would be much easier to parse (at least for me) if the selected item were named in the bullet, followed by the description of how your org. receives messages:

* Select a partner name (default), if....
* Select a 3rd party connection, if....

I'm not sure what to do with the third option, which does not seem parallel to the previous two.

[source-message-type]
== Configure the Source Message Type

. In the message flow, expand the *Source message* section and click *Select*.

> . In the *Select message type* window:
> .. To use an existing message type, select the message type from the list and then click *Select*.
> .. To create a new message type, click *New* next to the search box, configure the X12 or EDIFACT xref:partner-manager-create-message-type.adoc[message type], and click *Save*.
> The message type and its validation settings are added to the message flow.

Reviewer: I find this similarly hard to parse; how about using two mutually exclusive "To..." steps:
```suggestion
. To use an existing message type, select the message type from the list in the *Select message type* window and then click *Select*.
. To create a new message type, click *New* next to the search box in the *Select message type* window, configure the X12 or EDIFACT xref:partner-manager-create-message-type.adoc[message type], and click *Save*.
The message type and its validation settings are added to the message flow.
```
...although I have to admit that I would prefer to see substeps for the second item, which comprises three actions....

. If your partner expects your organization to return functional acknowledgements:
.. In the *Acknowledgement* section, select the check box next to *Send 997 functional acknowledgment (X12)* or *Send CONTRL functional acknowledgement (EDIFACT)* .
.. Click *Select*.
.. In the *Select an endpoint: Send acknowledgment to <partner>* window, click *Select* to specify the endpoint from which to receive the acknowledgment transactions from your partner.
+
.. Alternatively, you can create a new send to partner endpoint:
... Click *New*.
... In the *Owner* field, select the endpoint owner.
... In the *Protocol* field, select and configure the protocol.

> ... Click *Save*.

Reviewer: Same thing here: this is a confusion of nested options hiding in a single step.

+
The acknowledgment is added to the message flow.

[[import-map]]
== Import the Translation Map

> To create your inbound EDI-to-application message (JSON or XML) map in Anypoint Studio, follow xref:partner-manager-maps.adoc[these instructions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create your inbound EDI-to-application message (JSON or XML) map in Anypoint Studio, follow xref:partner-manager-maps.adoc[these instructions]:
```
or
```suggestion
To create your inbound EDI-to-application message (JSON or XML) map in Anypoint Studio:
```

. In the message flow, expand the *Map* section.
. Click *Import* and then click *Choose file*.
. In the *New mapping file* window, navigate to the DataWeave map you want to use and then click *Open*.
. Click *Upload mapping*. +
The translation map is added to the message flow.

[[configure-target]]
== Configure the Target

. In the message flow, expand the *Target at <host>* section.
. In the *Message Type* section, click *Select*.
. In the *Select message type* window:
* To use an existing message type, select the message type from the list and then click *Select*.

> * To create a new message type, click *New* next to the search box, define the xref:partner-manager-create-message-type.adoc#target-at-host[target at host message type], and click *Save*.

Reviewer: ditto comment Lines 47-51

+

> The message type is selected for your backend system to use to map the EDI transaction. Partner Manager routes inbound EDI transactions based on matching identifiers configured at the Partner level.

Reviewer: Is it really necessary to confirm that the steps had the desired effect? 
This might be concept info sneaking into task steps.

. In the *Target at <host>* section, expand the *Endpoint* section and click *Select*.
. In the *Select an endpoint: Target to <host>* window:
.. To use an existing endpoint, select the endpoint from the list and  then click *Select*.
.. To create a new endpoint:
... Click *New* next to the search box.
... From the *Owner* drop-down, select the endpoint's owner.
... From the *Protocol* drop-down, select the protocol and configure it according to the protocol you select:
* xref:endpoint-https-send.adoc[HTTP or HTTPS]
* xref:endpoint-ftp-send.adoc[FTP]
* xref:endpoint-sftp-send.adoc[SFTP]
+
... Click *Save*. +

> The endpoint to which to send the translated message (JSON or XML) for further processing in your backend system is added to the message flow. Partner Manager routes inbound EDI transactions based on matching identifiers configured at the partner level.

Reviewer: ditto comments Lines 61-70

[[verify-message-flow]]

> == Verify the Message Flow is Complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Verify That the Message Flow Is Complete
```
https://capitalizemytitle.com/, *Chicago* tab

> Partner Manager dynamically validates the message flow configuration elements for completeness and displays a green checkmark if all the building blocks of the message flow are complete. After you verify the configurations, you are ready to deploy the message flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partner Manager dynamically validates the message flow configuration elements and confirms by displaying a green checkmark, indicating that you are ready to deploy the message flow.
```

== See Also

* xref:deploy-message-flows.adoc[Deploy Message Flows]
* xref:manage-message-flows.adoc[Manage Message Flows]
* xref:activity-tracking.adoc[Activity Tracking]

> * xref:troubleshooting.adoc[Troubleshooting Anypoint Partner Manager]

Reviewer: BREAK to commit
